Adding Dynamic Selection RFC (#2079)
uxlfoundation/oneDPL: rfcs/experimental/dynamic_selection/README.md

        auto q = unwrap(s);
        if constexpr (report_task_submission)
            report(s, execution_info::task_submission);

        // ... the remainder of the implementation

    }
```

### Lazy Reporting 

A backend may choose not to actively report events and instead lazily report them on demand by defining the
optional `lazy_report` member function. A backend trait is provided to determine if calls to `lazy_report`
are required.

| Backend Traits* | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| `lazy_report`<B>::value`, `report_report_v<B>` | `true` if a *Backend* requires that a *Policy* calls to `lazy_report` before making a selection. |

The example below shows how a `select` function might check this trait and call the function before it 
applies its selection logic.

```cpp
    template <typename Function, typename... Args>
    selection_type
    select(Function&& f, Args&&... args)
    {
        if constexpr (backend_traits::lazy_report_v<Backend>)
            backend_->lazy_report();

        // rest of selection logic ....

    }
```

<a id="exit_criteria_id"></a>
## Exit Criteria

- Demonstrate use cases where dynamic selection provides significant improvements.

> - Address open questions

Reviewer: One other known question that is not yet mentioned: how to deal with the situations where some application data needs to be associated with each resource. Will we need some API for that, or is it going to be addressed via backend/policy customization?

Author: I'll add an open question. But yes, one option is to do this through backend customization.

Author: Done.

- `f` a function object with signature `wait_t<T> fun(resource_t<T>, Args…);`
- `r` a container of resources of type `std::vector<resource_t<T>`.

| *Must* be well-formed | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| `p.get_resources()` | Returns a `std::vector<resource_t<T>>`. calling this function before `initialize` throws a `std::runtime_exception`. |
| `p.select(args…)` | Returns `selection_t<T>` that satisfies [Selection](#selection_req_id). The selected resource must be within the set of resources returned by `p.get_resources()`. |
| `p.submit(s, f, args…)` | Returns `submission_t<T>` that satisfies [Submission](#submission_req_id). The function invokes `f` but does not wait for the `wait_t<T>` object returned by it. |

| Policy Traits* | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| `selection<T>::type`, `selection_t<T>` | The wrapped select type returned by `T`. Must satisfy [Selection](#selection_req_id). |
| `resource<T>::type`, `resource_t<T>` | The backend defined resource type that is passed to the user function object. Calling `unwrap` an object of type `selection_t<T>` returns an object of type `resource_t<T>`. |

> | `wait_type<T>::type`, `wait_type_t<T>` | The backend type that is returned by the user function object. Calling `unwrap` on an object that satisfies [Submission](#submission_req_id) returns on object of type `wait_type_t<T>`. |

Reviewer 2: The first entry in each of these rows seems wrong. As mentioned below
`policy_traits<T>::[selection,resource, wait]_type` exists for a policy `T`, but I don't know what `selection<T>::type` is, etc.  

It should either be ``policy_traits<T>::[selection,resource, wait]_type` as the first entry, or `[selection,resource, wait]_type` I think.

Author: Ok, good catch. I will fix these.

> *Policy traits are defined in `include/oneapi/dpl/internal/dynamic_selection_impl/policy_traits.h`.

Reviewer: The information about the internal header seems redundant to me.

> The current implementation of these traits depends on types defined in the Policy:

Reviewer: So, is it a requirement for policies to define the types below, or is it just the default behavior of `policy_traits` that can be specialized differently?

```cpp
  template <typename Policy>
  struct policy_traits
  {
      using selection_type = typename std::decay_t<Policy>::selection_type;
      using resource_type = typename std::decay_t<Policy>::resource_type;
      using wait_type = typename std::decay_t<Policy>::wait_type;
  };
```
| *Optional* | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| `p.submit_and_wait(s, f, args…)` | Returns `void`. The function invokes `f` and waits for the `wait_t<T>` it returns to complete. |

> | `p.submit(f, args…)` | Returns `submission_t<T>` that satisfies [Submission](#submission_req_id). The function invokes `f` but does not wait for the `wait_t<T>` it returns to complete. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `p.submit(f, args…)` | Returns `submission_t<T>` that satisfies [Submission](#submission_req_id). The function selects a resource and invokes `f` with the selected resource and `args...`. |
```

> | `p.submit_and_wait(f, args…)` | Returns `void`. The function invokes `f` and waits for the `wait_t<T>` it returns to complete. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `p.submit_and_wait(f, args…)` | Returns `void`. The function selects a resource, invokes `f` and waits for the `wait_t<T>` it returns to complete. |
```

<a id="selection_req_id"></a>
### Selection

The type `T` satisfies *Selection* for a given [Policy](#policy_req_id) `p` if given,

- `s` an arbitrary identifier of type `T`

> - `i` an object of type `Info` where `execution_info_v<Info>` is true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `i` an object of type `Info` where `execution_info_v<Info>` is `true`
```

- 'v' an object of type `V` and `is_same_v<Info::value_type, V>` is `true`

| *Must* be well-formed | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |

> | `s.unwrap()` | Returns `resource_t<T>` that should represent one of the resources returned by `p.get_resources()` for the `Policy p` that generated `s`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `s.unwrap()` | Returns `resource_t<T>` that should represent one of the resources returned by `p.get_resources()` for the Policy `p` that generated `s`. |
```

> | `s.policy()` | Returns the policy that was used to make the selection. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `s.policy()` | Returns the Policy `p` that was used to make the selection. |
```

| `s.report(i)` | Returns `void`. Notifies policy that an execution info event has occurred. |
| `report_execution_info<T, Info>::value`, `report_execution_info_v<T,Info>` | `true` if this selection needs the backend to report the Info. `false` otherwise. |

<a id="submission_req_id"></a>
### Submission

The type `T` satisfies *Submission* for a given [Policy](#policy_req_id) `p` if given,

- `s` an arbitrary identifier of type `T`

| *Must* be well-formed | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |

> | `s.get_policy()` | Returns an object that satisfies [Policy](#policy_req_id) and corresponds to the Policy that made the selection. |

Reviewer: Why the method is called `get_policy()` here but a similar method of `Selection` is called `policy()`?

Also, should the description say "...that made the **submission**"?

Author: These names were taken from an internal design doc that was out of date. The current design has only `get_policy` and only in Selection. I will update.

> | `s.wait()` | Blocks until the submission has completed. |

Reviewer: Should it say more about when the submission completes?

Author: I think it is up to the backend to define when a submission completes.

| `s.unwrap()` | Returns the underlying backend type value. This type may be void, may represent the backend’s synchronization type, or may represent a return value from the submission. |

## Provided Concrete Policies 

<a id="fixed_resource_id"></a>

> ### `fixed_resource_policy`

Reviewer: At the beginning, the RFC says the information from the library docs will not be repeated unless necessary. Yet, the whole content of "Provided Concrete Policies" mostly repeats the docs. Is it really necessary? I do not find it very useful.

Author: Ok will replace this whole section with links.

```cpp
template<typename Backend=sycl_backend> 
class fixed_resource_policy;
```

| Constructors and Initialization |
| -----------------------------------------------------------|
| `fixed_resource_policy(deferred_initialization_t); // (1)` |
| `fixed_resource_policy(size_t offset=0); // (2)` |
| `fixed_resource_policy(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources, size_t offset=0); // (3)` |
| `void initialize(size_t offset=0); // (4)` |

> | `void initialize(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources, size_t offset=0); // (5)` |

Reviewer 2: I think `resource_t<T>` only exists for policies, not backends.  In practice, it seems to use `Backend::execution_resource_t`.

Author: Fixed resource does include an offset, but it is called index. I have updated the RFC with the correct name.

1. Defers initialization and requires a later call to `initialize`.
2. Always selects index `index` in the default set of resources.
3. Uses the provided set of resources and always selects index `index` from that set.
4. Always selects index `index` in the default set of resources.

> 5. Uses the provided set of resources and always selects index `index` from that set.

Reviewer: The choice of formatting which combines a table and a list seems strange. Was it supposed to be a code block and a list?

Author: I agree, code block will work better here. I will change.

Author: Section will be simplified.

`initialize` should only be called for policies that are constructed with `deferred_initialization_t`.

#### select heuristic (expository)

```cpp
  template<typename ...Args>
  selection_type fixed_resource_policy::select(Args&&...) {
    if (initialized_) {
      return selection_type{*this, resources_[index_]};
    } else {
      throw std::logic_error(“select called before initialize”);
    }
  }
```

#### execution info reporting requirements

none

#### Exceptions

> Constructor or initialize may throw `std::bad_alloc` or `std::logic_error`.

Reviewer: I would just merge this section into "Constructors and Initialization"; ditto for all other policy types.

Author: Section will be simplified.

<a id="round_robin_id"></a>
### `round_robin_policy`

```cpp
template<typename Backend=sycl_backend> 
class round_robin_policy;
```

| Constructors and Initialization |
| -----------------------------------------------------------|
| `round_robin_policy(deferred_initialization_t); // (1)` |
| `round_robin_policy(size_t offset=0); // (2)` |
| `round_robin_policy(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources); // (3)` |
| `void initialize(size_t offset=0); // (4)` |

> | `void initialize(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources); // (5)` |

Reviewer 2: It seems that a defaulted `offset` parameter is not is not actually implemented, but rather a default ctor, and `initialize()` with no args.

Author: ok.

1. Rotates through the default set of resources at each call to `select`.
2. Defers initialization and requires a later call to `initialize`.
3. Uses the provided set of resources and rotates through the default set of resources at each call to `select`.
4. Rotates through the default set of resources at each call to `select`.
5. Uses the provided set of resources and rotates through the default set of resources at each call to `select`.

> `initialize` should only be called for policies that are constructed with `deferred_initialization_t`.

Reviewer: And what happens otherwise?

Author: Section will be simplified.

#### select heuristic (expository)

```cpp
  template<typename ...Args>
  selection_type select(Args&&...) {
    if (initialized_) {
      resources_size_t i = 0;
      {
        std::lock_guard<mutex_type> l(mutex_);
        if (next_context_ == MAX_VALUE) {
          next_context_ = MAX_VALUE%num_contexts_;
        }
        i = next_context_++ % num_contexts_;
      }
      auto &r = resources_[i];
      return selection_type{*this, r};
    } else {
      throw std::logic_error(“select called before initialization”);
    }
  }
```

#### execution info reporting requirements

none

#### Exceptions

Constructor or initialize may throw `std::bad_alloc` or `std::logic_error`.

<a id="dynamic_load_id"></a>
### `dynamic_load_policy`

```cpp
template<typename Backend=sycl_backend> 
class round_robin_policy;
```

| Constructors and Initialization |
| -----------------------------------------------------------|
| `dynamic_load_policy(deferred_initialization_t); // (1)` |
| `dynamic_load_policy(size_t offset=0); // (2)` |
| `dynamic_load_policy(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources); // (3)` |
| `void initialize(size_t offset=0); // (4)` |

> | `void initialize(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources); // (5)` |

Reviewer 2: Again it seems no optional `offset` parameter is implemented.

Author: Ok, will fix.

5. Uses the provided set of resources and profiles each set of unique `f` and `args` for each resource uses the best.

`initialize` should only be called for policies that are constructed with `deferred_initialization_t`.

#### select heuristic (expository)

```cpp
  template<typename Function, typename ...Args>
  selection_type select(Function&& f, Args&&...args) {
    if (initialized_) {
      auto k = make_task_key(f, args...);
      auto tuner = get_tuner(k);
      auto offset = tuner->get_resource_to_profile();
      if (offset == use_best) {
        return selection_type {*this, tuner->best_resource_, tuner}; 
      } else {
        auto r = resources_[offset];
        return selection{*this, r, tuner}; 
      }
    } else {
      throw std::logic_error(“select called before initialization”);
    } 
  }
```

#### execution info reporting requirements

```cpp
  void report(task_execution_time_t, timing_t v) { 
    tuner_->add_timing(offset_, v); 
  }
```

#### Exceptions

Constructor or initialize may throw `std::bad_alloc` or `std::logic_error`.

<a id="backend_req_id"></a>
## Backends

> Backends allow generic policies to be implemented. End-users do not directly interact

Reviewer: Who are "end-users"?

Author: Will clarify.

with a backend, except to choose the backend if they opt-out of the default SYCL backend.
Custom policy writers that wish to implement a generic policy that can accept backends
should follow the backend contract. Developers that wish to provide a backend that can
be used with the existing concrete policies should also follow the backend contract.

### Named Requirements

The type `T` satisfies the *Backend* contract if given,

- `b` an arbitrary identifier of type `T`
- `args` an arbitrary parameter pack of types `typename… Args`
- `s` is of type `S` and satisfies *Selection* and `is_same_v<resource_t<S>, resource_t<T>>` is `true`
- `f` a function object with signature `wait_t<T> fun(resource_t<T>, Args…);`

> - `r` a container of resources of type `std::vector<resource_t<T>`.

Reviewer: `r` is not used anywhere in the description of the backend contract.

Author: Will remove.

| *Must* be well-formed | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| `b.submit(s, f, args…)` | Returns an object that satisfies *Submission*. The function invokes `f` but does not wait for the `wait_t<T>` object returned by it. |
| `b.get_submission_group()` | Returns an object that has a member function `void wait()`. Calling this wait function blocks until all previous submissions to this backend are complete. |
| `b.get_resources()` | Returns a `std::vector<resource_t<T>>`. |

| *Optional* | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |

> | `void lazy_report()` | If defined by a backend, this function must be called before each new selection. It triggers reporting of the necessary execution info back to the policy. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `void lazy_report()` | If defined by a backend, this function must be called by a policy before each new selection. It triggers reporting of the necessary execution info back to the policy. |
```

<a id="free_functions_id"></a>
## Free Functions

| Signature | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `vector<typename policy_traits<P>::resource_type> get_resources(P&& p);` | Returns the resources associated with the Policy `p`. |
| `template<typename P, typename... Args> selection_t<P> select(P&& p, Args&&... args);` | Applies the policy `p` and returns a *Selection*. |

> | `template<Selection S, tyepname F, typename... Args> auto submit(Selection s, F&& f, Args&&... args);` | Invokes `f` with the unwrapped resource from selection `s` and `args`. Implements any instrumentation necessary for the backend to report necessary execution information. May be implemented as `s.get_policy().submit(s, f, args…)`. |

Reviewer: Typo: "tyepname" here and below.

Author: Will fix.

| `template<Selection S, tyepname F, typename... Args> auto submit_and_wait(Selection s, F&& f, Args&&... args);` | Invokes `f` with the unwrapped resource from selection `s` and `args`. And then waits on object returned by the `f`.  May be implemented as `wait(s.get_policy().submit(s, f, args…))`. |
| `template<Policy P, tyepname F, typename... Args> auto submit_and_wait(P&& p, F&& f, Args&&... args);` |  Invokes `f` with the unwrapped resource returned by `select(p, f, args…)` and `args`.And then waits on object returned by the `f`. May be implemented as `wait(p.submit(p.select(f, args…),f,args…))`. |
| `template<typename P> auto get_submission_group(P&& p);` | Returns an object that has a member function `void wait()`. Calling this wait function blocks until all previous submissions to this policy are complete. |
| `template<typename W> void unwrap(W&& w) noexcept;` | Returns `w.unwrap()` if available, otherwise returns `w`. |

> | `template<typename W> void wait(W&& w);` | Calls `w.wait()` if available. |

Reviewer 2: As implemented, I believe this has a build error if `w.wait()` is unavailable, so the language here is a bit confusing.  
I think we need to remove "if available" here, or implement some alternative if it is not available (no-op?).

Author: Will remove "if available"

> | `template <typename S, typename Info> void report(S&& s, const Info& i);` | Reports that event `i` has occurred. |

Reviewer 2: We should mention that `S` is a Selection type, and that this does so only if `s.report()` is available, otherwise it is a no-op.

Author: Will fix.

<a id="execution_info_id"></a>
## Execution Info

Policies are informed of key events through the reporting of Execution Info.
Most commonly, this reporting is done by a backend and is not visible to the
end user.  However, developers that implement custom backends, or that
manage work submission without using the `submit` or `submit_and_wait` functions,
will need to report Execution Info to allow policies to work properly. There
are currently three kinds of Execution Info that may be required by a Policy:

| Execution Info    | Value Type | Description |
| ----------------- | ---------- | ----------- |
| `task_time`       | `uint64_t` | Clock ticks that elapsed between task submission and completion. |
| `task_submission` | void       | The task has been submitted. |
| `task_completion` | void       | The task is complete |

| Info Traits* | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| `report_info<S,Info>::value`, `report_info_v<S,Info>` | 'true' if the *Selection* requires the event type to be reported |
| `report_value<S,Info,V>::value`, `report_info_v<S,Info,V>` | `true` if the *Selection* requires the event value to be reported |

> * These traits are defined in `include/oneapi/dpl/internal/dynamic_selection_traits.h`

Reviewer: The information about the header seems redundant.

Author: Will remove.

Backend traits can be used to determine what events are need by the *Policy* that provided a *Selection*.
For example, below is code a function the receives a *Selection* and uses traits to determine if the
`task_submission_t` must be reported. If so, it is reported using the `report` free function.

```cpp
    template <typename SelectionHandle, typename Function, typename... Args>
    auto
    submit(SelectionHandle s, Function&& f, Args&&... args)
    {
        constexpr bool report_task_submission = report_info_v<SelectionHandle, execution_info::task_submission_t>;
        auto q = unwrap(s);
        if constexpr (report_task_submission)
            report(s, execution_info::task_submission);

        // ... the remainder of the implementation

    }
```

### Lazy Reporting 

A backend may choose not to actively report events and instead lazily report them on demand by defining the
optional `lazy_report` member function. A backend trait is provided to determine if calls to `lazy_report`
are required.

| Backend Traits* | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |

> | `lazy_report`<B>::value`, `report_report_v<B>` | 'true' if a *Backend* requires that a *Policy* calls to `lazy_report` before making a selection. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `lazy_report`<B>::value`, `report_report_v<B>` | `true` if a *Backend* requires that a *Policy* calls to `lazy_report` before making a selection. |
```

The example below shows how a `select` function might check this trait and call the function before it 
applies its selection logic.

```cpp
    template <typename Function, typename... Args>
    selection_type
    select(Function&& f, Args&&... args)
    {
        if constexpr (backend_traits::lazy_report_v<Backend>)
            backend_->lazy_report();

        // rest of selection logic ....

    }
```

<a id="exit_criteria_id"></a>

> ## Exit Criteria

Reviewer: Add an item about the oneDPL specification update to include the functionality.

Author: Will add.

  #include <iostream>

  namespace ex = oneapi::dpl::experimental;

  int main() {

    // (1) create a policy object
    ex::dynamic_load_policy p{ { sycl::queue{ sycl::cpu_selector_v },
                                 sycl::queue{ sycl::gpu_selector_v } } };

    for (int i = 0; i < 6; ++i) {

      // (2) call one of the dynamic selection functions
      //     -- pass the policy to the API function
      //     -- provide a function to be called with a selected queue
      //        -- the user function must receive a sycl queue
      //        -- the user function must return a sycl event
      auto done = ex::submit(p,
                            // (3) use the selected queue in user function
                            [=](sycl::queue q) {
                              std::cout << "submit task to "
                                        << ((q.get_device().is_gpu()) ? "gpu\n" : "cpu\n");
                              return q.single_task([]() { /* work here */ });
                            });

      // (4) each submission can be waited on using the returned object
      ex::wait(done);
    }

    // (5) and/or all submissions can be waited on as a group

>     ex::wait(p.get_submission_group());

Author: Fixed

  }
```

The execution flow of a call to the function ``ex::submit`` is shown below.  

<img src="execution_flow.png" width=800>

The free function `submit` receives a Policy object `p` and a function object `f`
and returns an object `w` that can be waited on.
A valid Policy must define a `submit` member function and a Backend must also
define a `submit` member function. The requirements on Policy and Backend types
are discussed later in this proposal. In the figure, the Policy's `submit` function
selects a resource `r` and then passes `r`, an `execution info handle h`, and `f`
to the Backend. The handle `h` is the mechanism for the Backend to report runtime

> information required by the Policy logic for making future selections.

Author: Fixed

> information required by the Policy logic for making future selections.

Author: I also added a linked to the section that describes how to use traits to determine what information needs to be reported for a given selection handle.

The Backend `submit` function invokes `f` with the selected resource as an
argument and is also responsible for collecting and reporting any information
required by the Policy.

## Policies

A Policy is an object is a valid dynamic selection heuristic.

### Named Requirements

The type `T` satisfies *Policy* if given,

- `p` an arbitrary identifier of type `T`
- `args` an arbitrary parameter pack of types `typename… Args`

> - `s` a selection of a type `selection_t<T>` , which satisfies *Selection*, and was made by `p`.

Author: Added links.

`p.submit(s, f, args…)`

Returns `submission_t<T>` that satisfies *Submission*. The function invokes `f` but does not
wait for the `wait_t<T>` object returned by it.

#### Traits

Policy traits are defined in `include/oneapi/dpl/internal/dynamic_selection_impl/policy_traits.h`.

`selection<T>::type`, `selection_t<T>`

The wrapped select type returned by `T`. Must satisfy *Selection*.

`resource<T>::type`, `resource_t<T>`

The backend defined resource type that is passed to the user function object.
Calling `unwrap` an object of type `selection_t<T>` returns an object of type
`resource_t<T>`.

`wait_type<T>::type`, `wait_type_t<T>`

The backend type that is returned by the user function object. Calling `unwrap`
on an object that satisfies *Submission* returns on object of type `wait_type_t<T>`.

The current implementation of these traits depend on types defined in the Policy:

```cpp
  template <typename Policy>
  struct policy_traits
  {
      using selection_type = typename std::decay_t<Policy>::selection_type;
      using resource_type = typename std::decay_t<Policy>::resource_type;
      using wait_type = typename std::decay_t<Policy>::wait_type;
  };
```

> #### The following are *optional*:

Author: Moved to tables.

> #### The following are *optional*:

Author: Moved to tables.

`p.submit_and_wait(s, f, args…)`

Returns `void`. The function invokes `f` and waits for the `wait_t<T>`
it returns to complete.

`p.submit(f, args…)`

Returns `submission_t<T>` that satisfies *Submission*. The function invokes `f`
but does not wait for the `wait_t<T>` it returns to complete.

`p.submit_and_wait(f, args…)`

Returns void. The function invokes `f` and waits for the `wait_t<T>` it
returns to complete.

#### Selection

> The type `T` satisfies *Selection* if given,

Author: Done.

- `s` an arbitrary identifier of type `T`

> - `i` an object of type `Info` where `execution_info_v<Info>` is true

Author: Fixed

- 'v' an object of type `V` and `is_same_v<Info::value_type, V>`

The following *must* be well-formed:

`s.unwrap()`

Returns `resource_t<T>` that should represent one of the resources returned by 
`p.get_resources()` for the `Policy p` that generated `s`.

`s.policy()`

Returns the policy that was used to make the selection.

`s.report(i)`

> Returns void. Notifies policy that an execution info event has occurred. 

Author: Fixed

`s.report(i,v)`

> Returns void. Notifies policy of a new value for an execution info event.

Author: Fixed.

Execution info traits are defined in `include/oneapi/dpl/internal/dynamic_selection_traits.h`.

`report_execution_info<T, Info>::value`, `report_execution_info_v<T,Info>`

> True if this selection needs the backend to report the Info. False otherwise.

Author: Fixed

#### Submission

The type `T` satisfies *Submission* if given,

- `s` an arbitrary identifier of type `T`

The following *must* be well-formed:

`s.get_policy()`

Returns an object that satisfies *Policy* and corresponds to the Policy
that made the selection.

`s.wait()`

Blocks until the submission has completed.

`s.unwrap()`

Returns the underlying backend type value. This type may be void, may represent the
backend’s synchronization type, or may represent a return value from the submission.

> ## Concrete Policies Already Provided

Author: Done.

### `fixed_resource_policy`

```cpp
template<typename Backend=sycl_backend> 
class fixed_resource_policy;
```

| Constructors and Initialization |
| -----------------------------------------------------------|
| `fixed_resource_policy(deferred_initialization_t); // (1)` |
| `fixed_resource_policy(size_t offset=0); // (2)` |
| `fixed_resource_policy(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources, size_t offset=0); // (3)` |
| `void initialize(size_t offset=0); // (4)` |
| `void initialize(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources, size_t offset=0); // (5)` |

1. Defers initialization and requires a later call to `initialize`.
2. Always selects index `offset` in the default set of resources.
3. Uses the provided set of resources and always selects index `offset` from that set.
4. Always selects index `offset` in the default set of resources.
5. Uses the provided set of resources and always selects index `offset` from that set.

#### select heuristic (expository)

```cpp
  template<typename ...Args>
  selection_type fixed_resource_policy::select(Args&&...) {
    if (initialized_) {
      return selection_type{*this, resources_[fixed_offset_]};
    } else {

>       throw std::logic_error(“seleced called before initialize”);

Author: Fixed.

    }
  }
```

#### execution info reporting requirements

none

#### Exceptions

Constructor or initialize may throw `std::bad_alloc` or `std::logic_error`.

### `round_robin_policy`

```cpp
template<typename Backend=sycl_backend> 
class round_robin_policy;
```

| Constructors and Initialization |
| -----------------------------------------------------------|
| `round_robin_policy(deferred_initialization_t); // (1)` |
| `round_robin_policy(size_t offset=0); // (2)` |
| `round_robin_policy(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources); // (3)` |
| `void initialize(size_t offset=0); // (4)` |
| `void initialize(const std::vector<resource_t<Backend>>& resources); // (5)` |

1. Defers initialization and requires a later call to `initialize`.

> 2. Rotates through the default set of resources at each call to `select`.

Reviewer 2: Is the offset the starting point?

Author: Yes, fixed.

3. Uses the provided set of resources and rotates through the default set of resources at each call to `select`.
4. Rotates through the default set of resources at each call to `select`.
5. Uses the provided set of resources and rotates through the default set of resources at each call to `select`.

#### select heuristic (expository)

```cpp
  template<typename ...Args>
  selection_type select(Args&&...) {
    if (initialized_) {
      resources_size_t i = 0;
      {
        std::lock_guard<mutex_type> l(mutex_);
        if (next_context_ == MAX_VALUE) {
          next_context_ = MAX_VALUE%num_contexts_;
        }
        i = next_context_++ % num_contexts_;
      }
      auto &r = resources_[i];
      return selection_type{*this, r};
    } else {

>       throw std::logic_error(“selected called before initialization”);

Reviewer 2: It seems "selected" is intentional since it is repeated, and probably coming from the code.  
I think we would want "selected before initialization" or "select called before initialization".

Author: Fixed

- `b` an arbitrary identifier of type `T`
- `args` an arbitrary parameter pack of types `typename… Args`
- `s` is of type `S` and satisfies *Selection* and `is_same_v<resource_t<S>, resource_t<T>>` is true
` `f` a function object with signature `wait_t<T> fun(resource_t<T>, Args…);`
- `r` a container of resources of type `std::vector<resource_t<T>`.

The following *must* be well-formed:

`b.submit(s, f, args…)`

Returns an object that satisfies *Submission*. The function
invokes `f` but does not wait for the `wait_t<T>` object returned by it.

`b.get_submission_group()`

Returns an object that has a member function `void wait()`. Calling this
wait function blocks until all previous submissions to this backend are
complete.

`b.get_resources()`

Returns a `std::vector<resource_type>`.

*optional: * `void lazy_report()`

If defined by a backend, this function must be called before each new 
selection. It triggers reporting of the necessary execution info back to
the policy.

## Free Functions

`vector<typename policy_traits<P>::resource_type> get_resources(P&& p);`

Returns the resources associated with the Policy `p`.

May throw `std::bad_alloc` or `std::logic_error`. 

> A call to `get_resources` may cause lazy initialization. Initialization may throw `std::bad_alloc`.

Reviewer 2: We probably need to define "lazy initialization" for a backend (and its resources).

The key components of the Dynamic Selection API are shown below, including the
[Free Functions](#free_functions_id) (such as `submit`, `select`, `wait`, etc), a

> [Policy](#policy_req_id) object (such as [fixed_resource_policy](#provided-concrete-policies),
> [round_robin_policy](#provided-concrete-policies), [dynamic_load_policy](#provided-concrete-policies) and
> [auto_tune_policy](#provided-concrete-policies)) and a [Backend](#backend_req_id) object (currently only

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Policy](#policy_req_id) object (such as [fixed_resource_policy](#concrete_policies_id),
[round_robin_policy](#concrete_policies_id), [dynamic_load_policy](#concrete_policies_id) and
[auto_tune_policy](#concrete_policies_id)) and a [Backend](#backend_req_id) object (currently only
```
